.. _arnie-infrastructure-arch:

================================
Arnie - infrastructure architect
================================

Arnie is responsible for the strategy and road-map for his company's cloud.
He identifies reasons to compel management to adopt OpenStack for production
environments. The two reasons that would deter Arnie from recommending
OpenStack are frequent instabilities, non-deterministic errors, the inability
to create an environment, and missing documentation. Similarly to the domain
operator, Arnie needs to know about any outage conditions that may occur on
both testing and production environments.

Key tasks
~~~~~~~~~

Arnie performs the following tasks very frequently:

* Decision making: Considers adoption of OpenStack based on financial,
  strategic, architecture, and security advantages.

* Hardware configurations: Determines if a hardware configuration
  suits the requirements of a cloud instance and if an OpenStack solution
  running on such hardware is the best possible option.

* User experience: Considers application developers, the development
  processes, and the end users when recommending and installing cloud
  instances.

* Cloud planing: Defines and plans the cloud while considering hardware,
  platform choices, services, and scale.

Key information
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Arnie spends a lot of time reading and researching information about
OpenStack and other cloud technologies. He has attended more than one
OpenStack summit and contributes solutions to the community regularly. He
values OpenStack and is committed to drive adoption. His priority, however,
is a fully functional and stable cloud that fulfills all of his requirements.

The organizational models
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The tasks that the persona performs within a certain organizational model are
important for the usability of your OpenStack development. Within a small
organization, such as Rifkom or Nikishi University, Arnie might be required
to assume some roles and responsibilities of a Cloud Operator or, more
rarely, a Domain Operator. Within a larger organization, like CNBB
Securities, Arnie's tasks are performed by the team planing and implementing
the cloud instances.

Your development
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Arnie's main concern is the cloud's architecture. Arnie interacts directly
with OpenStack and has probably developed any pieces that he needed. Your
development targets Arnie if it makes any changes to the way clouds are
implemented and deployed. Any new features, fixes, and limitations are
important to him.

If your development modifies the scope, implementation, and usage of
OpenStack ensure to take Arnie into consideration.
